With the
dire conditions in
Gaza, babies born prematurely
and their mothers
are facing huge challenges
as they try to find adequate care.
CNN's Larry Meadows
takes us inside one hospital.
Every breath is a miracle
for these babies born
prematurely during the war
in the Gaza Strip.
They're here
because Israeli forces
ordered the al-Shifa hospital
in the north evacuated,
claiming
Hamas terrorists operated from there.
Baby formula is the only source
of nutrition here.
Many of the mothers
have not been found yet.
Nobody knows if they're alive or dead.
Saima Abu had just arrived
and is meeting her daughter
for the first time
since she was born 38 days ago.
And you can
you can tell me,
your father says to tell you
that he loves you.
She tells Bibi Kanda, her voice breaking.
This is the closest
she can get to her own child.
She was intubated as
soon as she was born.
And has that impression that.
We were under siege in the north.
I didn't know anything about my daughter.
We had no connectivity.
When the truce came,
I found out that she was in Egypt.
Kanda and 11 other preterm
babies from al-Shifa
came to the new Capital
Administrative Hospital in Cairo
over two weeks ago.
Nine more have arrived from across
Gaza since.
How relieved
are you to be able to see your baby
finally didn't come? Camden.
I'm very happy, thank God.
Today I felt like a mother
because I've never seen her before.
I just want to hold her and touch her.
The Muslim
doctors say
she'll be able to hold her daughter soon.
All the babies in this neonatal intensive
care unit
are under six weeks old,
and yet they have already been through
so much in their short lives.
A war
and a risky journey across the border
from the Gaza Strip to here
in the Egyptian capital.
SASSON Abu
Hamza gave birth to twin girls
two months early,
just six days
after the Israel-Hamas
war started in the north.
Behind the Gaza.
There were airstrikes
and heavy bombardment,
the dead everywhere.
It all weighed down on me.
So I had labor pains and cramps.
They took me to Shifa Hospital.
And I spent a week in the ICU
before then.
One of the girls
has been discharged from the night cue
and she can breastfeed her
in the nursery.
But the twin sister
remains in an incubator.
Their mother
never thought she would see them again.
Not in my heart.
Shifa was under siege.
Out of despair, I lost hope.
And I left.
I wanted to take my girls with me.
But the doctors said if I did,
they would die.
They said to leave them
and God would protect them.
Doctors say all the
babies are doing better
than when they arrived in Cairo.
But most of cases are growing
and will increasingly end
with the general condition.
Political feeding.
Some problems and some vision.
Not too much.
In fact, eight
have made it out of the night cue
into this nursery.
But reuniting them with their parents
might be harder than saving their lives.
We not only is a name.
For the mother,
but we don't know
where is the mother is now.
Larry Medawar, CNN, Cairo.